= s3-static-site

Allows static websites deployment to Amazon S3 website buckets using Capistrano.

== Hosting your website with Amazon S3

S3 provides special website enabled buckets that allows you to deliver website pages directly from S3.
The most important difference is that theses buckets serves an index document (ex. index.html) whenever a user specifies the URL for the root of your website, or a subfolder. And you can point your domain name directly to the S3 bucket cname.

To learn how to setup your website bucket, see Amazon Documentation.

http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/index.html?HostingWebsiteQS1.html

== Getting started

Setup capistrano, create a public folder and set your S3 bucket configurations in +deploy.rb+.

  capify .
  mkdir public
  touch config/deploy.rb #see config instructions bellow
  cap deploy

And voilà!

=== Configuring deployment

s3-static-site overrides the default Capistrano recipes for Rails projects with its own simple s3 publishing scripts.

  # config/deploy.rb
  require 's3-static-site'

  set :bucket, "www.cool-website-bucket.com"
  set :access_key_id, "CHANGETHIS"
  set :secret_access_key, "CHANGETHIS"

If you want to deploy to multiple buckets, have a look at Capistrano
multistage:https://github.com/capistrano/capistrano/wiki/2.x-Multistage-Extension 
and simply configure a bucket per stage.

==== S3 write options

s3-static-site sets files +:content_type+ and +:acl+ to +:public_read+, add or override with :

  set :bucket_write_options, {
    cache_control: "max-age=94608000, public"
  }

See aws-sdk S3Object.write:http://rubydoc.info/github/amazonwebservices/aws-sdk-for-ruby/master/AWS/S3/S3Object#write-instance_method documentation for all available options.

== Rendering with HAML or SASS

s3-static-site allows you to either upload files to S3 as you'd statically find them on your hard drive, or you can use HAML or SASS to generate HTML using Ruby.

For HAML generation, append +.haml+ to the end of your file, like:

  index.html.haml
  
For SASS:

  stylesheet.css.sass
  
When uploaded to S3, the +.haml+ and +.sass+ will be removed, leaving either +index.html+ or +stylesheet.css+.

== Copyright 

Copyright (c) 2012 Josh Delsman & miomoba, Inc. See LICENSE.txt for details.